chore(docs): Add Fast Refresh entry (#30133)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/reference/fast-refresh.md

---

> title: Fast Refresh

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to move this doc under the "local development" folder inside of Reference. What do you think?

Author: @meganesu The folder didn't exist so I created it now

---

> Fast Refresh is an implementation of Hot Reloading with full support from React and it replaces purely userland solutions like [`react-hot-loader`](https://github.com/gaearon/react-hot-loader). It is a feature that allows you to get direct feedback for changes in your React components: A change in your editor immediately updates the browser view and if you have errors in your code the browser view displays an error overlay. Fast Refresh is enabled by default in Gatsby's development server and should show your changes within a second, without losing component state which results in an overall better development experience (DX).

Reviewer: Thanks for updating this, this is helpful context!

Made a few small tweaks: moved some sentences around and added a link to the "react-refresh" package (although maybe it's better to swap that out for [Dan's comment](https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/16604#issuecomment-528663101) in that PR?).

I haven't heard the term "userland" before, what does it mean? Third party? Community created? (I swapped in "unofficial", but feel free to pick another adjective.)

```suggestion
[Fast Refresh](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-refresh) is an implementation of Hot Reloading with full support from React. It replaces unofficial solutions like [`react-hot-loader`](https://github.com/gaearon/react-hot-loader).

With Fast Refresh, changes to the code for your React components immediately update in the browser, without losing component state. If you have errors in your code, the browser view displays an error overlay with more details about what went wrong. This direct feedback on your changes results in a better overall development experience (DX).

Fast Refresh is enabled by default in Gatsby's development server and should show your changes within a second.
```

> Fast Refresh is an implementation of Hot Reloading with full support from React and it replaces purely userland solutions like [`react-hot-loader`](https://github.com/gaearon/react-hot-loader). It is a feature that allows you to get direct feedback for changes in your React components: A change in your editor immediately updates the browser view and if you have errors in your code the browser view displays an error overlay. Fast Refresh is enabled by default in Gatsby's development server and should show your changes within a second, without losing component state which results in an overall better development experience (DX).

Reviewer: One other idea: How hard would it be to make a short video like this one from the [hot reloading React docs](https://reactnative.dev/blog/2016/03/24/introducing-hot-reloading), showing the difference in DX for when fast refresh is enabled vs. disabled?

Seeing the difference was helpful for me when I was figuring out what fast refresh actually does. Truly just a suggestion though.

Author: I'd file this under nice-to-have for the future :D

## Error Resilience

The Fast Refresh integration is good at catching errors instead of silently failing. Gatsby takes this opportunity to present you with a custom overlay that further explains the error and how to resolve it. Once it's resolved Fast Refresh will recover from that state. The overlay will indicate whether it's a compile error, [GraphQL](/docs/glossary#graphql) error, or runtime error.

![Three error overlays from left to right: Compile error, GraphQL errors, and runtime errors](../reference/release-notes/v3.0/compile-graphql-runtime-errors.jpg)

### Compile Errors

Compile errors originate from webpack and can't be dismissed. Those errors are blocking the compilation of the code itself, so you'll need to fix them in order to see the page. The [Debugging HTML builds](/docs/debugging-html-builds/) guide may also be helpful in some cases.

### GraphQL Errors

> GraphQL errors can occur due to a number of reasons, most often due to an error inside your page query or static query. You'll be given an error ID (e.g. `#85923`) that you can use to scan the documentation and internet in addition to an error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphQL errors can occur due to a number of reasons, most often due to an error inside your page query or static query. In addition to an error message, you'll be given an error ID (e.g. `#85923`) that you can use to scan the documentation and internet for more information.
```
